Amen.
So Ash Wednesday,
Marks the beginning of the season of Lent is a time of repentance.
Fasting and prayer.
All this is done in preparation for the great feast that we celebrate on Easter Sunday. Thank you.
Now the season of Lent began in the early days of the church. The Bible never says anything about Lent.
But it never tells us to celebrate Christmas either or Easter for that matter. A lot of these things are just...
Soon after the church had taken off,
in the very earliest years, they started establishing these special days of remembrance. So it's certainly appropriate.
now lent originally was ah for new converts.
As they were preparing to be baptized.
1989 at Easter.
So they would take these forty days and fast and prepare and stuff like that. but it didn't take long before all Christians started joining in.
And the tradition was started and is still done even to this day all over the world. The 40 days of Lent refer to the Lord's time of fasting in the wilderness.
And so people fast during this time and various versions of it.
Straight up fasting is you just don't eat.
Some people will actually not do that during this time. Not that they'll go four days, but for example, on Wednesdays we gather for Lenten services, a lot of people won't eat all day Wednesday.
Wednesday during Lent and then break their fast at the end of the day when we have our soup after the service like we'll have tonight. Others more traditionally will give us something they like.
You know some people it's a chocolate
or glass of wine or whatever it is and say okay i'm giving that up for lent why do we do this fasting is a way of just
Telling your body to shut up.
okay we are body soul and spirit most of us are absolutely controlled by our bodies everything it wants we try and deal with it and
Our emotions go crazy all the time. We deal with our emotions all the time. Fasting is a way of saying, okay, stop.
Okay, we aren't driven by that. We're driven by what we believe.
Somebody say amen.
All right. So, but if you,
At the days, it's not 40 days, it's actually 46 days.
The reason being is during six Sundays of Lent,
Uh,
it's.
Allowed to
Break the fast. for example, let's say you're going to give up chocolate.
uh during lent but on Sundays you can take a bath in chocolate if you'd like
okay.
Although if you're giving it wine, don't get hammered on the wet Sunday. All right, just...
Thank you.
But it's the day out. And why is that? Because we...
Always remember Sunday as being the day that we celebrate the Lord's resurrection, not just at Easter time. So that's where the tradition comes in. So it's actually, you take away those days, that's where the
That's where you get the 40 days. That's where they do the math. And tonight is the first day.
Of those days.
Now, throughout the Old Testament, ashes are used as a sign of sorrow and repentance.
It is from this tradition that Christians have used ashes on this day to indicate sorrow for our sins. When Adam and Eve sinned,
God told them, "You are dust, and to dust you shall return."
And those believers in Christ who shall never taste of eternal death, since we are part of Adam and Eve and share in their sin,
We must all pay a price of physical death.
Thus we mark ourselves tonight with ashes to remind all of us of our physical mortality.
Okay so after all that setup let's begin
We're reading from 1 John, the first chapter, verses 13 to
If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us.
if we confess our sins he is faithful and just and will forgive us of our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness.
So I'm going to pray now these words.
Psalm 51. Psalm 51.
For the whole congregation.
Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love.
According to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions.
Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin.
For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me.
Against you, you alone, have I sinned, and done what is evil in your sight.
So that you are justified in your sentence and blameless when you pass judgment.
Indeed, I was born guilty, a sinner, and when my mother conceived me.
Your truth
You desire truth in the inward being
Therefore, teach me wisdom in my secret heart.
Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean.
Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
Let me hear joy and gladness, let the bones that you have crushed rejoice.
Hide your face from my sins.
And blot out all my iniquities.
"'Create in me a clean heart, O God, and put a new spirit.'"
A right spirit within me
Do not cast me away from your presence do not take away your holy spirit from me
Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and sustain me with a willing spirit.
Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you.
Deliver me from bloodshed, o God, o God of my salvation,, and my tongue will sing aloud of your deliverance.
Oh lord open my lips and my mouth shall declare your praise
For you have no delight in sacrifice. If I were to give a burnt offering, you would not be pleased. The sacrifice acceptable to God.
Is a broken spirit.
Our broken and contrite heart, O God,
You will not despise.
At this time, we're going to have some young people read some scriptures.
And I will give you rest.
Matthew 11:28
For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believed in him shall not perish, but have eternal life.
John 3:16
Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. 1 Timothy 1:15
If anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father.
Jesus Christ, the righteous one.
He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins.
And not only for our sins alone, but also for the sins of the whole world.
1 John 2, verses 1 and 2.
Amen. Thank you.
Now let me pray.
With the assurance of God's grace from the scriptures let me pray to our heavenly father
Most holy and merciful Father, we confess to you and to one another and to the whole world of believers in heaven on earth that we have sinned by our own fault and thought were indeed.
By what we've done, by what we've left undone.
We have not loved you with our whole heart and mind and strength. We've not loved our neighbors as ourselves.
We have not forgiven others as we have been forgiven.
We have at times been deaf to your call to serve as Christ served us.
We have not always been true to the mind of Christ.
and at times have grieved your Holy Spirit.
So, ah,
We're going to do a call and response.
I won't.
Confessed,
Thank you.
to the Lord, and then you guys will respond, for we have sinned against you.
All right before we do that though we're going to light some incense and let me give the background on incense
Um,
incest was part of the Levitical law of Moses Malachi chapter 1 verse 11 says my name will be great among the nations
From where the sun rises to where it sets,
"'In every place incense and pure offerings will be brought to me "'because my name will be great among the nations,' says the Lord Almighty.'"
And in the New Testament, we remember at Christmas time, we read about John the Baptist when he was in there.
serving as a priest,
What was he doing? Let's read it. It's Luke, the first chapter. Once when he was serving as priest before God and his section was on duty, he was chosen by lot according to the custom of the
Some of the priesthood to enter the sanctuary of the Lord and to offer salvation.
Incense.
But then we also see it in Revelation, where it talks about heaven.
This will be done in heaven.
Revelation 8:3-4, another angel with a golden censer came and stood at the altar. He was given a great quantity of incense to offer for the
So with the prayers of all the saints, right?
On the golden altar that is before the throne.
And the smoke of the incense
With the prayers of the saints
1.
From the hand of the angel.
So, this is a very,
biblical thing to do. Let's all stand together.
Okay, for all our unfaithfulness and disobedience. Amen.
For the pride, vanity, and hypocrisy of our lives,
Lord, have mercy upon us.
For our self-pity and impatience.
and our envy of those we think more fortunate than ourselves.
Lord, have mercy upon us.
For our unrighteous anger, bitterness, and resentment.
For all the lies, gossip and slander against our neighbors,
Lord, have mercy upon us.
For our sexual impurity, our exploitation of other people,
And our failure to give ourselves in love
Lord, have mercy upon us.
For our self-indulgent appetites and ways, and our intemperate pursuit of worldly goods and comforts,
For our dishonesty in daily life and work, our ingratitude for your gifts,
And our failure to heed your call
Lord, have mercy upon us.
For our blindness to human need and suffering.
And our indifference to injustice and cruelty.
Lord, have mercy upon us.
For all false judgments,
For prejudice and contempt of others.
And for all uncharitable thoughts toward our neighbors.
Lord, have mercy upon us.
For our negligence in prayer and worship, Lord, have mercy upon us.
And for seeking the praise of others rather than the approval of God.
Lord, have mercy upon us.
Oh lord you are a merciful god full of compassion long-suffering and abounding in steadfast love
You spare when we deserve punishment.
And in your wrath you remember mercy. Spare your people, O Lord. Spare us.
In the multitude of your mercies.
Look upon us and forgive us of our sins through the merits
and mediation of your blessed son Jesus Christ our Lord
Amen.
You may be seated
God spoke these words after Adam and Eve sinned.
You said by the sweat of your face
You shall eat bread until you return to the ground for out of it you were taken you are dust
And to dust.
You shall
Return.
Almighty God, you have created us from the dust of the earth. Grant that.
100% these ashes may be for us a symbol of our mortality, 100% of all
a sign of our penitence, that we may remember that it is by your grace alone that we receive the gift of eternal life in Jesus Christ.
Our
Lord.